Provide prebuilt native libraries by NuGet Packages. (#257)
KubaZ2/NetCord: Documentation/guides/basic-concepts/installing-native-dependencies.md

# Installing Native Dependencies

NetCord relies on several native libraries for high-performance audio processing and encryption. NetCord provides prebuilt native binaries via NuGet packages, which is the recommended way to manage these dependencies.

## Native Dependencies Context

- **Libdave**: Essential for voice connection interactions.

> - **Libsodium**: Used for encryption. While NetCord defaults to native AES-GCM (which does not require Libsodium), Libsodium is a highly recommended production dependency. It acts as a fallback for the XChaCha20-Poly1305 encryption mode, ensuring your bot remains compatible if Discord switches to this mode for your connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Libsodium**: Used for encryption. While NetCord defaults to native AES-GCM (which does not require Libsodium), Libsodium is a highly recommended production dependency. It acts as a fallback for the XChaCha20-Poly1305 encryption mode, ensuring your bot remains compatible if Discord uses this mode for your connection when AES-GCM is not supported by the hardware of the voice server.
```
Maybe this will be better.
Also maybe we should clarify that you will need Libsodium if your hardware does not support AES-GCM?

Author: not sure what you mean "your hardware" while the suggested change said "of the voice server".

btw isn't voice functionality now `should be` migrated to use `libdave`? then we don't need libsodium, libdave internally does the crypto too.

Author: oh, was libsodium for http interaction?

Reviewer: Libdave handles payload encryption only, it doesn't handle transport encryption. So if you use Libdave, you still need transport encryption which essentially now is AES-GCM or XChaCha-Poly1305. And yes, Libsodium is used for HTTP events as well, not only voice. And for HTTP events it is required unless someone decides to use some external validation.

Author: @KubaZ2 can you give clear description of cases where it's actually needed? that description is confusing, it doesn't say when a bot won't work if not using libsodium (example?). (aside from making sure the running platform has AesGcm support)

Reviewer: @ha-ves, essentially, when you connect to a voice channel, a voice server is chosen to handle that connection, and depending on what server you get (likely it also depends on the voice region) it may or may not support AES-GCM encryption. It is claimed that all voice servers support XChaCha-Poly1305, so if you don't have Libsodium available, the bot will fail in cases in which AES-GCM is not supported by the voice server.

Also since on some hardware AES-GCM may be not supported, when you run your voice bot on such hardware, it will fail unless you use Libsodium. What is interesting is that [currently by default NetCord does not check if AES-GCM is supported and it just defaults to AES-GCM if the voice server supports it](https://github.com/NetCordDev/NetCord/blob/alpha/NetCord/Gateway/Voice/VoiceEncryptionProvider.cs#L13), maybe this default behavior should be changed.

Feel free to ask further if something is still unclear.

- **Zstd**: Used for efficient payload compression.

## NuGet Packages (Recommended)

NetCord distributes these dependencies as per-RID (Runtime Identifier) packages. This model automates binary resolution, ensuring the correct libraries are provided for your target platform.

### Supported Platforms
Packages are available for:

| Platform | RID | NativeAOT Support | <div style="text-align: center;">Size <br/> ![Storage Requirement](https://img.shields.io/badge/Runtime-Package-blue)</div> |
|----------|-----|-------------------------|-----------|
| Windows x64 | `win-x64` | ✓ (Static CRT /MT) | ![Windows x64](https://img.shields.io/badge/6_MB-42_MB_(176_MB)-blue) |
| Windows ARM64 | `win-arm64` | ✓ (Static CRT /MT) | ![Windows ARM64](https://img.shields.io/badge/6_MB-41_MB_(183_MB)-blue) |
| Linux x64 | `linux-x64` | ✓ (Dynamic CRT) | ![Linux x64](https://img.shields.io/badge/10_MB-9_MB_(28_MB)-blue) |
| Linux ARM64 | `linux-arm64` | ✓ (Dynamic CRT) | ![Linux ARM64](https://img.shields.io/badge/10_MB-8_MB_(26_MB)-blue) |
| ⓘ macOS x64 | `osx-x64` | ✓ (Dynamic CRT) | ![macOS x64](https://img.shields.io/badge/15_MB-11_MB_(28_MB)-blue) |

> | ⓘ macOS ARM64 | `osx-arm64` | ✓ (Dynamic CRT) | ![macOS ARM64](https://img.shields.io/badge/13_MB-10_MB_(25_MB)-blue) |

Reviewer: Not sure hardcoding the binary sizes is a good idea. It is easy to miss it when you update a binary. Why is it even needed?

Author: no particular reason, i was just cut/paste from PR summary's table.

actually putting nuget badge is probably better anyway, they can check it directly on nuget gallery

- Use tools like `ldd` (Linux) or `Dependency Walker` (Windows) to verify that your application is correctly linking against the native libraries.

---

## Extra Notes on Native Dependencies

The native packaging model is designed to make managing dependencies as transparent and reliable as possible.

### What You Get
*   **Ready-to-use binaries**: We provide prebuilt runtime binaries for standard .NET and static libraries for NativeAOT.
*   **Automatic Configuration**: MSBuild files are included in the packages to automatically handle paths and linking requirements, so you don't have to manually configure build settings.

### Built-in Compliance
All necessary licenses and copyright notices from the original native project sources are bundled automatically within each package under the `licenses/` directory.

| Library | License | Remarks |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Libdave** | MIT | Discord voice communication |
| **Libsodium** | ISC | Used for encryption |
| **OpenSSL** | Apache 2.0 | Cryptographic operations |
| **Opus** | BSD-3-Clause | Audio codec |

> | **Zstd** | BSD-3-Clause | Compression |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Library       | License      | Remarks                     |
|---------------|--------------|-----------------------------|
| **Libdave**   | MIT          | Discord voice communication |
| **Libsodium** | ISC          | Used for encryption         |
| **OpenSSL**   | Apache 2.0   | Cryptographic operations    |
| **Opus**      | BSD-3-Clause | Audio codec                 |
| **Zstd**      | BSD-3-Clause | Compression                 |
```
